As you already know, with the aim
of attracting visits or generating
traffic, we can opt for a series
of channels or tools or platforms
that we have classified
in Outbound or Inbound.
Well, the companies what we
do at the end is select a series
of channels, that is, at the
end we have a mix and that
mix is what should help
us our goals.
And what I want to share today is
the criteria, the ten criteria, is
a model that we have created at
The Power MBA, with which companies
in reality select which
channels we use and which
channels do not, with which
companies ultimately create
that mix of what you were talking
about.
I want you to know that the theory
of digital marketing what it tells
us is that the main criterion is the
return on investment and this
is not true.
It may be the most important one, but
there are many more factors that together,
which is what we're going to see,
determine what kind of channels
you're going to use and which
not.
The first one is the customer.
After all, the most important
thing is that you have to understand
very well your customer person
who is, what does, what media consultation,
etc., and you will use the
channels that are most suitable
for your customer person.
It is common sense.
The second is if in addition to
that in our client we can
effectively reach our customer
from that channel, if we can also
segment it.
Why is it?
Because as we can segment more and
more, the return will be greater,
the risk will be lower, and so on.
There are channels that allow
you to segment a lot, like
Facebook, for example, and there
are channels that allow you to
segment a lot, like if we put
an ad on television.
Man, we can choose the time and
other things, but basically the
segmentation is very scarce.
The third of the criteria is ROI,
which is actually one of the
main, is how much we will get
to that investment.
By the way, there is another criterion
that is that to some extent the
channel contributes to awareness
to being a known brand or branding.
This is not because, this is sometimes
separated from short-term return
or ROI, because it is a slightly
different goal, but it may
be that interests us.
This is something we must take into account.
It is possible that a channel we know
that it will not have a short-term
return, we do not know when it will
have it, but that what we are interested
at that time is to be a well-
known brand.
And then we opt for that channel,
even though in other criteria
like ROI, the rating
may not be good.
The fifth factor is very important
and is something to be taken into
account and that is evaluated in a
very complementary way with return,
with ROI.
It is the scale, it is the volume, it
is the scalability.
What do I mean by this?
You take into account the following.
I'll put you a case where we do a campaign
with an influencer, for example,
and the return is very high.
It is the biggest we have ever had.
However, it turns out that that
company can only resort to that influencer,
because there are no more influencers
in that area, related
to that service.
So, of course, the scope or scalability
of this campaign or channel
for this company is very
low.
Look, you also have to hire
the influencer, prepare the campaign,
etc., and it is a very punctual
campaign.
What I'm going to do is that
scale or scalability is very important
because we have to find
our growth engine.
Then you have to look for
or prioritize channels that
allow you to grow as much
as possible and your growth
goals.
And it's true that there may be other
channels that have a higher return,
but that will take you more
effort.
Why is it?
Because it is that you will have to
be constantly changing, because they
don't have the ability to escalate
with you.
Another criterion is immediate, which
could be the payback.
This is a very important
part of the outbound
and inbound channel.
Usually, when they are outbound channels
and they are paid channels, the immediate
is greater.
We pay, invest money and
traffic grows quickly or
leads grow or sales grow.
Inbound strategies have a more medium-
term return, which in the end what
it does is, after that medium-
term you have a generation
of traffic at a very sustainable
cost and more.
But you really have to take that into
account.
If your inbound channels are
channels, you will prioritize channels
primarily outbound.
Another factor to consider is the
minimum investment that some channels
require.
You can invest 25 euros on
Facebook, but there are platforms
where you have to invest 10,
000 euros to get started.
Well, then if you are not
capitalized enough, it is that directly
those platforms that
require you a greater investment,
because you will leave
them out.
They may be attractive to you,
but you won't be able to cope with it.
And another factor that
is related, but not the same,
is the risk that is assumed with
that investment.
The risk depends mainly on
the cost model.
I will give you two contradictory examples.
We can compare doing a television campaign
in which you spend 100,000 euros and
you don't know what will happen to
the most performance models,
especially to the extreme that
would be if you make an agreement
with someone with a certain
channel and charge you for customer
acquisition.
It's completely variable,
fully aligned with your goals.
I've given you two extreme examples,
but I want you to understand
the difference.
In the end, all companies
are looking for channels that have
the most variable cost possible
because the risk is lower.
Another very important factor is that
there are channels or platforms that
help you, accompany the customer
along the entire funnel.
This is a great advantage.
It is very related to the
concept of retargeting or
remarketing that we will study
in a later class.
I will give you two examples again.
You make a TV ad and you can
generate a lot of warning or
a lot of traffic on time.
But we are only at the top
of the funnel.
However, there are other platforms,
mainly for example social
networks or Google too, where
we can accompany the customer
throughout the funnel.
That is, we can make traffic-
raising campaigns and then we
can re-impact them to generate
leads and to turn them into
sales.
We will see.
But it's a big advantage because
on the same platform, with the
same tool, with the same
knowledge, etc.
This allows us to maximize the
return because you have many more
impacts to convince your customer.
You can capture it, you
can convert it, you can close sales,
you can impact it again when you are
already a buyer to increase the
customer life time value, etc.
And finally there is a criterion
that is more subjective but that
is very important and is the effort,
the know how, the dedication,
that you have to do to put
in place a campaign or
a tool or control a platform,
etc.
This is a very thing to take into account.
For example, imagine that
we decide or that you think making
video ads, whether on YouTube
for example, can be attractive
to you and can have a good
return.
But it turns out you don't have any videos.
That requires a lot of effort and that
at the end of that effort you have
to impact it on the return of the
campaign.
Or, for example, you want to put
in place a content marketing strategy
with good content, etc.
It is very good and is definitely
a great option.
But there are some channels
that require you much more
effort, more knowledge, dedicated
people who know about it
and there are others
that are easier to manage.
Well, the 10 criteria together
are those that are actually
used to decide whether you use one
channel or another or on which
priorities.